Oceanic climate, also known as maritime climate, is a humid temperate climate type classified Cfb in the Köppen system. This climate type is typical of the western part of the continents at mid-high latitudes, generally between 40° and 55° latitude in both hemispheres. Oceanic climates are characterized by cool summers, mild winters, a relatively narrow annual temperature range, and few weather extremes.

Areas with oceanic climates are generally cloudy, humid, with low cloud cover and are frequently affected by cold air masses and low pressure systems. Thunderstorms are uncommon, as there is little daytime heating or strong interference between warm and cold air masses. Most precipitation falls as rain throughout the year, however many areas in oceanic climates do experience snowfall in winter, which is usually short-lived. Some areas at higher latitudes within the oceanic climate zone, known as subpolar oceanic climates (Cfc), experience snowfall more frequently. Extreme weather is rare in this climate type.

In terms of temperature, oceanic climates are generally cool all year round with little significant variation. Cfb regions have coldest month average temperatures of 0°C or above (in contrast to continental climates, where coldest month temperatures are below 0°C). Summers are generally warm but not hot, with hottest month average temperatures below 22°C. Subpolar oceanic climates (Cfc) are a more polar variant, with long but moderate winters for the latitude and short, cool summers, with average temperatures of 10°C or above for 1 to 3 months. However, temperature extremes can occur when moist oceanic air masses are replaced by dry continental air.

The west-to-east polar jet stream in the mid-latitudes is the main factor bringing low-pressure systems, storms, and cold fronts to the coastal areas from about 45 to 60° latitude. Onshore sea breezes play an important role in shaping the oceanic climate. It is the low temperatures of the adjacent ocean that maintain the characteristic nature of this climate. During the fall, winter, and early spring, the polar jet stream is strong, bringing with it many marine weather systems, causing fog, heavy clouds, and light drizzle, which are typical of oceanic climates. During the summer, high pressure often pushes westerly winds northward, resulting in less rain in the summer.

