A humid subtropical climate is a climate characterized by hot, humid summers and cool to mild winters. It is found in the southeastern parts of continents (except Antarctica), between latitudes 25° and 40°, just poleward of the neighboring tropical climate zones. In some climate classification systems, this climate is also called a warm temperate climate.

Cwa's climate has an average coldest month temperature of 0°C to below 18°C and a hottest month average temperature of 22°C or above. Winters are mild, not cold enough to produce long-lasting frosts or permanent snow cover lasting more than a month.

Although many subtropical climates are located near or close to the sea, some areas may extend further inland, where seasonal characteristics become more pronounced, with sharp contrasts between summer and winter, representing a transition between hot tropical climates in the south and colder continental climates in the north and further inland. Thus, humid subtropical climates can have different characteristics, depending on geographical location – close to the sea or inland – due to the moderating influence of temperature from adjacent water masses.

In this climate, summers are long, hot, and humid. Average summer temperatures typically range from 24°C to 27°C. When the sun is high in the summer, tropical air masses dominate, causing intense but short convective thunderstorms to occur daily. Daytime summer temperatures typically range from the low to mid-30s°C, while nights hover around 20°C.

In winter, average temperatures typically range from 7.5°C to 16°C, with daytime temperatures ranging from 10°C to 16°C, and nighttime temperatures ranging from 2°C to 7°C. At the polar edges of this climate, temperatures can drop below freezing.

Rainfall typically peaks in summer, especially in areas with strong monsoons, such as Southeast Asia and South Asia. Unlike Mediterranean climates, humid subtropical climates do not have a distinct dry summer. Most summer rainfall occurs as thunderstorms from strong terrestrial radiation and high insolation angles. In addition, weak low-pressure systems from the tropical ocean and tropical storms, although rare, also contribute to summer rainfall.

